
# Introduction
The main objective of the project was to denoise an ECG signal that has been corrupted by 60 Hz noise. For this assignment the signal was denoised using filters with the help of Matlab and Multisim Software. This technique is very useful since sensitive electronic device recording are at high risk of corruption by noise.
# Methods
    Loaded the corrupted signal to Matlab and assigned two variables t and x with column one and column two data of the signal file respectively. Column one had time and column two had the ECG signal. The signal was plot using the plot function to observe the signal and understand the amount of noise in it. Using myFFT function, observed the frequency content. This confirmed that the noise had a frequency of 60Hz. 
   The next step was to build a filter. For this a variable named fc was assigned with a cutoff frequency of 60 in Hertz. A third order low pass filter was to be built. For this variable N was assigned with 3. Then, coefficient of the numerator and denominator were assigned variables num and den using butter function. The function butter assigns variables with the coefficients of the numerator and denominator of the terms of Butterworth filter. The parameters for the function were: N for the order the filter, cutoff frequency in radians/seconds and ‘s’ for complex frequency. A transfer function was created using the tf function and was assigned to variable H_butter. Using the function lsim applied the filter to signal. The result was assigned to variable y. Plotted t vs y and examined the resulting graph. Decreased the cutoff frequency until the desired result was reached to reject as much noise as possible. 
    After successfully building and applying the filter on Matlab, moved on to recreate the result in Multisim. For this, poles of the Butterworth filter created was found using roots function in Matlab. The real pole was RC circuit and complex poles were form RLC circuit. Using the fact s = - 1/RC and setting the resistor value to 1 kΩ, found out the value for the capacitance for RC circuit. Also, the real part of the complex poles was equal to - R/2L and the imaginary part was equal to ±√((4/LC-)  R^2/L^2 )×1/2  . Setting the resistor to 1 kΩ found out the values of the inductance and capacitance for the RLC circuit. Built the circuits and connected them using an Op-Amp as a buffer between them. Transient response the of the input signal was simulated and observed. 
Results
    
 The results were as expected. Successfully denoised the ECG signal using the filters. The final signal was with minimal noise, but the magnitude of the signal was cut off from the top and the bottom. The RC circuit had a resistor of 1 kΩ resistance and capacitor of 15.92µF capacitance. The RLC circuit had a resistor of 1 kΩ resistance, inductor of 15.9155 H inductance and capacitor of 31.83 µF capacitance.

# Discussion
      A 3rd order low pass filter was used to denoise. This filter was used because the noise was in higher frequencies. A band pass filter would have also worked but for this particular problem a low pass filter was enough. The myFFT of the denoised signal had its 60 Hz noise cut off. This confirmed the successful filtering. The magnitude of the filter seems to have cutoff. This might due to the fact that the low pass filter we had created was had a smoother slope. If there was no slope there would have been no magnitude loss. Tried Chebyshev filter also but the result was similar to Butterworth filter. Also, combined both the filter to get a third filter. This filter gave a much more noise reduction at higher cutoff frequencies. This might be due to it being a higher order filtered compared to the two. It seems that the higher the order of filter the sharper the slop and the sharper the rejection of the unwanted frequencies in the signal. 
